My senior design project is focused on developing a contact-sharing app that utilizes RFID/NFC business cards to quickly share contacts. Furthermore, the app will improve the ease of sharing contacts and various personal information such as social media or portfolios through organized collections of personal details for different use cases such as for a professional or social environment. By utilizing the physical card and features to selectively include information for various instances, time spent trying to share contacts will be significantly reduced, and will be much more simple to accomplish rather than the many steps currently needed. From my academic perspective, this senior design project is an opportunity to apply what I’ve learned in classes and co-op to something practical. I’m able to combine the technical skills and software development concepts, in the process, such as the various programming languages I’ve learned and SDLC methodologies. It is also a chance to work through the full software development process, from an initial idea to a finished application, which is not something I’ve completely done before.

My coursework in computer science has given me a strong foundation for this project, and I hope to be able to apply both practical and technical skills as well as theory. As this project will require work on both the frontend and backend, as well as database and design, many courses I’ve taken will prove to be useful. For the design of the application and cards, I will be applying skills from CS5167 - User Interface I where I’ve learned effective design principles. This will be especially useful as design plays a huge part in ease of use. I will also use the knowledge from CS3003 - Programming Languages and CS2028C - Data Structures, where I’ve refined my programming skills that will allow me to code the backend of the application. I’ve also taken IT3020 - System Analysis and Design and CS3093C - Software Engineering which has taught me the software development process, and various methods of effective development common in the industry.

For my co-op rotations, I have done one EEP semester and two semesters at Siemens Digital Industries Software. During my EEP, I was able to practice various programming languages through personal projects and individualized learning courses. During my two rotations at Siemens DISW, my job title was Software Development Co-op. For my first semester, I was on the AI Solutions team where I developed a RAG-based chatbot using LLMs and LangChain, and I developed both the frontend and backend of that project, as well as worked with the vectorstore. I was on the Deployment Center team for my second rotation, where I worked on optimizing the codebase and also implementing a new feature which required me to make changes to the user interface and connecting backend as well. Overall, I also gained experience in proper technical documentation and the software development process, especially with the Agile methodology.

I am motivated to work on this project because I see how it can be very useful in both professional and social situations. Sharing contact information is something that happens all the time such as at career fairs, social events, or just meeting new people in general. Personally, I’ve found it frustrating that there’s many steps to sharing things like my number, LinkedIn, or social media profile. I find this project idea interesting because it solves both a real world problem as well as serves as a challenge for me to apply my skills to full-stack work. I am also motivated to be able to collaborate with my teammates to combine our skills and expertise to create an application. I also see avenues for expansion after the senior design project, such as using the RFID cards for attendance and identification, and many different possible uses.

Our preliminary approach will be to first create a prototype of the application that can handle the core functionality of linking a physical RFID card to a digital contact profile. As we are not very experienced in this field, we will be conducting some tests and creating small demos to learn more about how RFID and NFC works and what would be possible. We will also be creating possible design sketches to determine what the most effective user interface would be. After that, we will focus on building out features that allow users to customize what details they share depending on the situation, such as profession versus personal information. I expect the end result to be an application that is easy to use and reliable, as well as a card that simplifies contact-sharing. To evaluate, I will measure whether the code and features all work properly, are finished according to our timeline, and integrated well. I will know I have done a good job if our final product is something that people can use with minimal effort and is preferable over the current methods to share contacts.
