My individual contribution to this project, a contact sharing application called Candle, was through the frontend design and development. Alongside other frontend-focused members of the team, we first designed the user interface through many iterations of sketching, prototyping, and evaluation. I contributed to the design of the logo, and elements of the user interface such as the panels that display the contact information taken from any selected contacts, and the ability to add profiles. To complete my work, I used skills such as frontend and backend development, knowledge with React and frontend frameworks, version control, and soft skills such as clear communication and project management. I built on these skills through practical application in developing this project, challenging myself with elements that I was not very familiar with and gaining experience by doing. I’ve improved both my technical skills and soft skills through this senior design project.

One of my main successes was the overall design of the application, as that was a major part of the project. As our application was very user-focused, it was rather difficult to completely stylize a design that is user-friendly, intuitive, and has comfortable aesthetics. However, I also faced challenges such as being unfamiliar with many of the frameworks and libraries used, as I’ve never worked on a mobile application prior to this project. To overcome these obstacles, I did a lot of research, watched tutorials, and read documentations on the assets used, such as Expo and React Native. I also collaborated with my team by asking questions and answering to ensure that everyone was on the same page and understanding. Overall, this experience helped me strengthen competencies in team management and research, as I’ve gotten much more familiar with navigating documentation, and showed me the importance of efficient time management in completing a project effectively.

As a group, we accomplished building a mobile application that should work on both iOS and Android devices, allowing efficient contact sharing for many use cases. Our team divided responsibilities and accomplished milestones by collaborating regularly to review progress and assign work based on the already completed portions. We were meticulous in keeping a regular schedule and progress checks, which allowed us to stay organized and meet our goals. Through this experience, I learned that effective group work requires extremely clear and timely communication. There is no room for delay, as delay results in more delay and a ruined schedule.

One challenge we faced as a group was time management. We did not have a very clear timeline of the project throughout the semesters, even if we had good project management. This affected the pace at which we had to do some parts of the project. For example, we allocated way too much time for the design process, and didn’t account too well for delays due to difficulties in building the most user-friendly design.
