For this project we will be creating a cross-platform and granular contact sharing application. The need for a project like this is something I have felt was unfulfilled for years. One of my main interests with this project is making the user-experience as seamless as possible for all users, whether they have the app installed or not. I think that this project will allow me to hone a lot of the skills I have learned both in classes and on co-op. Additionally though, I think I will get to explore a few areas where neither my classes nor co-ops have yet led me, chiefly among those is mobile development. I think that working on this project, and gaining that extra experience, will help round me out as a student and professional developer.

There are several of my classes whose coursework I believe has prepared me well for this project. Firstly in Software Engineering (EECE 3093C) we learned about the software development and project management process. We also got the chance to do a semester-long project from which I learned a lot about what does and does not work when it comes to developing similarly sized projects. Additionally I learned a lot about databases in my Database Design & Development course (CS 4092\) which will be helpful when working with the database on this project. Finally, I am taking a course right now, User Interface I (CS 5167), in which we are learning a lot about software usability and designing intuitive interfaces. Since usability is a major part of this project I believe this class will be seriously beneficial.

A major source of my learning was the hands-on experience I got while working on co-op. I started and stayed at the same place, on the same team, but throughout my five rotations got the chance to do a lot of different things. I worked as a Software Development Co-op at Siemens Digital Industries Software on the Cloud Test Infrastructure team. There I got a lot of experience with different things, but probably the most useful for this project was my experience with Git/DevOps. Not only is it better to build your project in a standard secure environment in general, but especially with our project being cross-platform, we will need to build and test it on two completely separate OSs. None of us own a Mac for building the iOS application, but thankfully I know that we can set it up to build using a GitHub Action running on a Mac OS device.

I am excited about this project for a few reasons. First it is a product I have wanted to exist for a while, and one that I will happily use when we are done. Secondly, I think it gives us the chance to work in a space I am really passionate about, the human user experience. The goal with our project is really to focus on creating a solution that *just works* for the user. Contact sharing is not flashy and we do not think it should be. Our philosophy with this project is that the end-user of our app should be able to download it and not really have to think about it. It should work when they want it and how they want it to every single time.

We are already starting to plan for what features we think are the most important. I will be satisfied that we are done and have done a good job when all those base features work and work in a way that anybody can use them without thinking about it. We additionally have a whole litany of features we would like to add, or think would be cool or useful. However, success with this project to me means we end with a product that is simple and intuitive to use and does all the basic things a user would want and expect. Anything else we add should not take away from or cheapen this core experience and should instead only serve to strengthen it. At the end if we have a product that meets these goals I will be happy and satisfied that we have done a good job.  
