My primary responsibilities on this project were frontend design and the sharing functionalities. I was a part of the larger team that designed and implemented an intuitive and user-friendly frontend and user experience for our application. We spent a lot of time discussing, planning, sketching, and designing both as a group and individually. We started with basic hand-drawn sketches and eventually refined those ideas and turned it into a fully realized design in Figma. Finally I helped implement parts of the frontend design into the actual app.

I was also the sole person responsible for researching, implementing, and testing all of our contact sharing technologies and functionalities. I did a lot of research into different peer-to-peer (and a couple not) methods of data exchange and the support, limitations, and feasibility of each for our project. Ultimately I decided that due to the platform support and our goal of supporting users without the app we needed to use three different technologies, NFC, Bluetooth Low Energy, and QR codes. The support for most of these was not great in React Native, our framework of choice, but through a lot of effort on my part I was able to get each of them working in an intuitive and easy to use sharing process.

Our group accomplished a great deal during the past two semesters. We have successfully created exactly what we set out to make, a cross-platform intuitive contact sharing app. We didn’t have time to get to every last feature that we wanted, but we recognized from the start that was an unrealistic goal. We got the base features we identified as important and most important of all maintained the usability of the app.

We had all worked together as a team before, so we knew going into this we would likely work well together. That being said this project was very different in scope from anything we had done together before so there were certainly many learning hurdles. I think one of our early struggles was getting started and coordination. We all started out with a lot of ideas and excitement and at the beginning we struggled a bit with where to start. We had very different ideas of timelines and schedules and no real dedicated time set aside to work on it together. We spent most of our early meetings just working on the mandatory paperwork and assignments of CS 5001 instead of actually making any project progress. Slowly however, we each began to work on our own things, but we still didn’t do a great job of coordinating and communicating all our design thoughts and decisions. Eventually, however, after a few missteps we figured it out and started working much more efficiently together.
